# 0x18. C - Dynamic libraries

**Static Linking is the process** of copying all library modules used in the program into the final executable image. The actual code is extracted from the library by the linker and used to build the final executable at the point you compile/build your application. Each process gets its own copy of the code and data. Static linking creates larger binary files, and needs more space on disk and main memory. Examples of static libraries (libraries which are statically linked) are, .a files in Linux and .lib files in Windows.Static Linking is the process of copying all library modules used in the program into the final executable image. The actual code is extracted from the library by the linker and used to build the final executable at the point you compile/build your application. Each process gets its own copy of the code and data. Static linking creates larger binary files, and needs more space on disk and main memory. Examples of static libraries (libraries which are statically linked) are, .a files in Linux and .lib files in Windows.

**Dynamic Linking** is the process of loading the external shared libraries into the program and then binds those shared libraries dynamically to the program. Dynamic Linking doesn’t require the code to be copied, it is done by just placing name of the library in the binary file. The actual linking happens when the program is run, when both the binary file and the library are in memory. Examples of dynamic libraries (libraries which are linked at runtime) are, .so files in Linux and .dll files in Windows.

Static libraries need to wait for compile time before linking with a program. Dynamic libraries need to wait for runtime before linking with a program. In short, a program’s executable file accommodates static libraries during its execution while dynamic libraries need to be loaded into memory first before a running program can access it
